well I want to thank all of you I'm
going to thank the Newman foundation for
this honor and especially bill Myron and
Ann Marie for thinking I deserved it
it's a special honor for me because I
admired I have stones independent
journalism so much as bill mentioned
that when I was at Colby College I even
lobbied the school library to subscribe
to his newsletter reading it weekly
shaped how I came to view journalism as
a profession that required endless
skepticism and I had the privilege of
meeting him once in the early 1980s I
was an investigative reporter than for
The Associated Press in Washington I had
gotten hold of some documents some
classified documents about financial
misconduct in El Salvador he called and
asked if he could come and read the
documents and I so I said sure any and
he showed up at the AP office on K
Street and through his thick glasses and
I think he might have had a magnifying
glass
too at the time he spent a couple of
hours poring through those papers so I
shared Izzy Stone's view that
journalists should be the consummate
outsiders I spent my first part of my
career as a mainstream journalist but I
never forgot his insistence on
maintaining your independence at all
costs whatever the pressures to me the
core responsibilities of a journalist is
to have an open mind toward in any
information you might find to have no
agenda and to have no preferred outcome
in other words I don't care what the
truth is I just care what the truth is
that's the deal you make with your
readers you have to follow the leads
wherever they go I also consider this
award a recognition of what we've
accomplished at Consortium news.com over
the past two decades this honor goes to
many many talented reporters and
analysts who have written for us they
have made Consortium News a place where
you can find thoughtful well research is
well reported
Meishan stories well worth reading
almost every single day and for those of
you who don't know much about consortium
news let me give you a brief history the
project began out of my frustration with
the mainstream news media where it spent
many years I worked at the AAP from 1974
to 1987 I was perhaps best known for
breaking many of the stories we now know
as the iran-contra scandal these
included the first article about a
little-known Marine officer named Oliver
North and with my AP colleague Brian
Barger the first story about how some of
the Nicaraguan Contras had gotten
themselves mixed up in the drug trade to
say that these and other stories weren't
always popular it would be a bit of an
understatement
but they were well reported and they
were borne out when the iran-contra
scandal exploded in late 1986 I then got
a job offer from Newsweek and I felt it
was time to move on sadly I had burned
many bridges at the AP in the fights to
push our stories to the wire but what I
found at Newsweek was even more
troubling there was an allegiance more
to the powerful than to the public at
senior levels there was a stubborn
reluctance to pursue the iran-contra
scandal to his roots out of fear that it
could destroy another Republican
president this may sound odd but the
attitude inside Newsweek which was then
part of the Washington Post company was
that we don't need another water day
they did not want another constitutional
crisis that was not deemed good for the
country
so I left Newsweek in 1990 and worked on
some documentaries for PBS Frontline but
it was becoming increasingly clear to me
that the space for serious investigative
journalism was closing down with the
arrival of Bill Clinton there was a
market for silly tawdry scandals but
there was even less interest in the
unsolved mysteries of the 1980s these
are old-fashioned complicated stories
without much sex but a key moment
occurred in late 1980 in 1994 when I got
access
to the raw files of a congressional
inquiry into an iran-contra spin-off
scandal known generically as the October
Surprise this was really a quite an
issue of whether or not the iran-contra
the sales of arms by the US government
to the Iranians had really begun not in
1985 in 1986 as the official story was
but much earlier that they've begun back
in 1981 and according to a number of
well-placed sources including people
like Assistant Secretary of State Nick
belly Otis these arrangements really
grew out of the Republican campaign in
1980 when Republicans are making
behind-the-scenes contacts with the
Iranians without President Carter's
knowledge so these documents were quite
interesting they've been the the
investigation had ended in sort of a
non-committal way they couldn't find
really evidence to support that these
events that occurred so the so they
basically just wrapped it up at the
beginning of the Clinton administration
and said well there's not really hard
evidence here but they had they left
behind a number of their of their
records and in late 1994 after the
Republicans had won the control of the
Congress that hadn't yet taken taken
over I thought it would be a good time
perhaps to get hold of whatever
documents they had left behind so I got
permission from the House Foreign
Affairs Committee to go to go look at
their their unpublished records
supposedly be obviously unclassified
stuff and they led me I had covered
Congress for a number of years that they
led me to a place I never you know it
knew existed in Congress there was I
went into the Rayburn building on
Capitol Hill down an elevator into the
parking garage and had to wind my way
through a parking garage and they put up
sort of some makeshift office space in
in the garage and if I knocked on the
door this young young guy came and let
me
and he until yes I mean I heard you were
coming and you have a I'm told you can
look at these documents you make copies
of only 12 12 pages is there an old
copying machine and he led me through
this little warren of offices basically
it's just him and me into an abandoned
lady's room
and in this is how your government sort
of work so in the ladies room they would
feel like there was even an empty tampon
dispenser on the wall they had they had
piled all these boxes on the floor and
so I sat down and started opening up the
boxes and the young doll just before
Christmas was so he was talking to his
girlfriend on the phone and I opened up
the boxes and I began to realize that
they left behind secret and top secret
material so I volunteered to make the
copies myself and it was one of those
old big lumbering copy machines that you
don't see anymore but they were back
then you would see them and they and so
I so I sort of covered the red the red
top-secret stamps all all these things
and began putting them into the machine
and it kept jamming but I kept saying I
I know I know these machines work I
can't I can take care of it so I've made
my 12 copies or whatever I was allowed
and then I sort of struck them out left
Capitol Hill and then I went back sort
of I went back a couple times to get my
in the 12 pages so over over a couple of
weeks I was able to get a number of
interesting documents which I thought
sort of changed how we'd understand the
1980s but I prepared a report
summarizing what the documents showed
but I kept running into this interest
among the major news organizations I try
to get them to it even some there
weren't that major but so the feeling
was that this was just a frustration of
trying to deal with with issues that
people profile with were historical they
didn't really care that much anymore so
I was one day I was
in 1995 I was complaining about this and
my oldest son
Sam who had just finished college was
home and he said dad instead of
complaining why don't you why don't you
go to the Internet and they have things
they call website and you can and and we
could publish them so I said well I
really didn't know the Internet I heard
about it and Sam Sam was not a techie
but he was but he set out and he back
then there were no tent templates you
having basically build it from scratch
so we had a rather rustic looking
internet site but we began publishing
these secret and top secret documents in
the stories that they derive from them
so that was the beginning of the
consortium news.com 20 years ago it
actually started in November of 1995 so
just about at the 20th birthday of a
little project and the original idea was
to provide a home for a neglected
investigative journalist journalists in
their work I thought it can raise
significant amounts of money from a
variety of sources
thus the rather clunky name consortium
news but I soon learned that independent
journalism while it's popular in the
abstract is not something people really
want to invest much in they prefer to
know how the stories are going to end up
before they give you the money so we
always struggled with money but we did
build a loyal readership we kept this
going with small donations mostly to end
to my foot into my pleasant surprise I
also discovered that a number of ex-cia
analysts we're looking for a place to
publish their work they share our
concern that the United States was
veering away from fact-based policies
they felt that this decoupling from
reality was careening the country toward
international catastrophes and they were
right I'd be happy to respond to any
specific issues that we've dealt with
over the past two decades from world
affairs to domestic politics but suffice
it to say that what we mostly do
is take on mindless group things of
which there are many in official
Washington we are relentlessly
independent that may not make us popular
with some people but I think I have
stone would approve
[Applause]
you know it is really rare these days
for me to think about a journalist and
look at him or her think mess up that
journalist is a real badass but in the
most miring terms a lot more badass
journalist and I couldn't be prouder to
situatedness I am really congressionally
do are you in the mood for stories
because I have questions I just love the
extra I colored imagine we all would you
take us back to the mid-80s and how you
figured out the CIA contract cocaine
connection how that came to light
sure the four people who may not have
followed all this some younger people
who may be like really old basically by
the mid 1980s by 8:45 it had become
clear that the Congress is trying to
stop the this war in Nicaragua and they
entires pass legislation generally
called the Boland Amendment which
prohibited in various ways the US
government from providing support to the
Contras but the Contras kept operating
so first alone I set out to try to
figure out how they were doing that
later on I was joined by my very very
talented colleague Brian Barger and what
we discovered over time was that there
were a number of secret sources of money
we're basically just following money and
we weren't looking for the drugs that
was a devastating but we had found out
that they were getting money from
private donors they were getting money
from America
American donors but also from third
country donors that this is being
organized out of the White House in
defiance of Congress and then as we good
further into this the it also became
clear that a number of the Contras
actually all the major contributors were
benefiting as well from the profits of
the drug trade would you take us right
into the grip of that because if that's
the kind of reporting that we don't get
enough of these days how did you figure
each of those end up in particular the
drug well you know the obviously a lot
of it was dealing with sources and we
spent a great deal of time getting know
the Contras were you down there a lot
wrong from Washington the great thing
about the Contras is the great thing
from my perspective was they really
asked they weren't really in Nicaragua
they were remote they're in Miami so and
and this is a little bit like what has I
know what the PM working at The
Associated Press
you've been do some domestic travel AP
is not very much big on paying people
for trucker trip so but I could make me
arrange to get trips domestically to get
trips overseas required going through a
lot more hoops and so so it's very handy
that the Contras were in Miami I could
listen a February degree kind of we guy
devices say I must go talk to the
Contras and when I'd fly down and get a
better car and drive along the Biscayne
Boulevard go and go out meet with the
Contras who had very nice houses usually
some condos and hoped I drove in other
places and and we got so we'd hang out
and we have dinner and we talked and
they would end up sticking muddy boots
and boys out of our rivers and party
lieutenant
but but eventually they would like rat
on each other they'd be like one guy say
I didn't get I didn't get any help they
even the CIA was helping this guy not
bad guy you know so so by getting to
know the Contras that way and developing
those relationships that was a way to
find out a lot of secrets about them and
then some of them began to talk about
how some of their people were the
problem the people they do not like were
involved in the drug trade and then we
went further into this there was a it
was also a case of Hugo Spadafora
who was a Panamanian official who was
who had tried to blow the whistle on
some of the bunkers being involved in
the drug trade and he was he was then
kidnapped and executed his body was
found in Panama and this so his family
was also interested in trying to keep
that alive and they were done there were
investigations but in Costa Rica we
brought Barger and I did go down to
across street that have spent time
talking to DEA officials and talking to
members of the government so over time
we pieced together a trade deal and one
of the one of our techniques in that
whole affair was to try to develop the
information in whether it be Miami or
Central America and then come back and
talk to people in Washington we also had
developed a lot of sources and you can
bounce things off them and you can also
help people in Washington understand
what's happening down there so some
members of Congress or members of their
staffs or even people inside the Reagan
administration itself would be
interested in talking to you because you
were actually bringing things back in
and one of the tactics we use because
you didn't want to burn any one source
if you talked to enough people they
started talking among themselves and
checking things out then you can go back
and sort of harvest the information and
it would not pin to one person
particularly so it's a way to also
protect sources but out of all that we
develop detailed knowledge of what the
Contras are up to and
they were doing your business and and
one story that that we prepared in
December of 1985 whatever story of the
Contra drug trade at that point we also
had I've gone to average still
punishment use his name but a senior
official National Security Council who
confirmed much of this based on CIA
documents the CIA was well aware what
was happening how direct was their hands
in the actual trade or was mainly an
umbrella with protection of the Contras
of CIA CIA s well I think the evidence
suggests that the CIA
there isn't anything suggested said at
this point that the that the Contras
became involved in the drug trade is
early 1980 at the very beginning of
their movement directed toward it by the
Schiller they were looking for money to
went all the way they were wrong
well the history is a little go got a
little further because it goes back to
1980 where there was a there was what
was called a cocaine coup in Bolivia and
the cocaine coup in Bolivia was
organized in part by the Argentine
intelligence services they weren't in
time to take it on for themselves this
idea they were going to rid the
continent of leftist movement so they
supported a right-wing poo in Bolivia
but also was involved with the drug drug
traffickers whose many of the officers
were also related connected to the drug
trade in Bolivia that provided a secure
source of coca paste which was then
brought to a city called Midian and
Colombia and this is the birth of
emitting pretz-elle that's how they got
going now
those Argentine intelligence officers
then moved on to Honduras where they
used some of the proceeds from the drug
trade to help found the Contras the
projects were really founded by the
Argentine intelligence services the CIA
engaged at that point I realize that was
the 1980 still Jimmy Carter's presidency
by 81-82 the CIA is in there and
ultimately the agent
take over the Contras because in
Argentina there is a class of the
military government so but so the
Contras were already into the drug trade
when the CIA sort of shows up but the
agency was aware based on even their own
admissions now from their Inspector
General's report in 1998 that the that
the Contras were in key people across
the board they were deeply involved in
the drug trade how important was the
cocaine money as opposed to the Iran
money probably was much more important
the Iran money was red the secondary
came in red of late it was 85 86 and it
never been clear exactly how much
ultimately got through to the Contras
some did but some also ended up in the
pockets at some of the middlemen in
general see Corey bought himself a fancy
sports car with some of the money so she
had she had pieces of it going
disappearing into moved toward the
Contras but the drug trafficking was
something that was important for them
really from the start all the way
through 1990 when it from the poor
basically ended at a position the
context of its reception that commute
would kill for us a time or to lure when
you took this your ap when you would
take this to your bosses there and say
let's go can you in a kind of granular
way describe some of those interactions
who at least by position you might have
been talking with it what their response
was I mean this is where it really gets
gritty they weren't prepared always to
run with these well in the AP did not
have a real history of doing
investigative journalism they had a
vibration to work for whether they have
a special unit develop because what Webb
Gallagher was this the general manager
Dave came back with my purse started
there he did want to have something
special to put together a special
assignment team and then at rank and
track and Frank by the time I got there
groaning for people on it and only one
of us is doing suggested and reported
but they kept alive his memory
for that point but 80 would number spot
news and breaking stories and beyond top
events I wasn't renowned for digging
that deeply into stuff and so it was a
bit of an odd development that the stuff
I was developing and then larger them
and I were together on on it was not the
navigate behold in The Associated Press
that and then was another complication
which was that Terry Anderson who was
the AP bureau chief and be rooted in
kidnapped by the radiator and all that
right by by this by terrorists acted to
Iran I was the police so you have the
ATP Bureau cheese and other senior
executives of working with Oliver North
be all Oliver North had two portfolios
basically he has he had the Contras in
Central America and he had and he had
the the Terrorism portfolio the Middle
East so he was the guy that they had to
go to to get help on Terry Anderson
which was a tremendously high priority
in the country and wives of the 80s we
were running stories about North
activities in Central America that were
causing in great difficulties with
almost every movement or getting fired
so the AP was sort of caught in the
middle at the high level and they test
they sort of kept us except they
shielded us that knowledge but that they
would say up don't you give a damn about
Terry not right but they but we for
instance being a federal a bunch of
story radio May of 1986 you know they
were all reported all written ready to
go and they message they ran ran to a
wall and going this was going well no
about well we we figured out it had
something to do with Terry Anderson but
we do not know until later it was in May
of 1986 when Oliver North amazing this
trip to Iran with viable indicate trying
to get arianism free freedom so it
appeared that inky don't never admitted
this not the people I've talked to at
senior level but it seemed logical that
they were holding on with those stories
because they did not want to run North
efforts to get Anderson Creek but it's
good
as a granule level of the condo drug
story is if you get to December of 1985
we prepared this story and we go on
through all this material we had a
couple dozen sources by then and the
documents we have we have the story nail
AP was quite nervous actually they were
probably nervous because we identified a
guy named Manuel Noriega the leader of
half Panama is involved I at that time
was very sensitive but so so baby fall
we had we thought we were ready to go
we've got to have that approval I sent
the final version into the bureau chief
which is initialed at the top which is
how we do things and it gets a win in to
looking scary to his office and then the
Lavery came out at Bob and I tell you
this but I ran it had people in New York
they really think we should run
however because maybe the large
organization the copy of the story with
the bureau chief officials at the top
went to the Spanish language facial
simply translated in Spanish and sent it
out there to later we got a bargain got
a call from someone's as well as any
lovely story
and he didn't know what to make of it so
we sort of tracked his back and I hadn't
even put into the Georgie's office and
say I think we've got a problem is that
dis referring I don't have it
and then they decided that they would
put it on in English but they turned out
the reference nutria Noriega is that
alerted we couldn't go that far but the
that's that's how that story off it
later you're so genial is telling these
things but yet we know from this report
and you kept brass breath and what would
the conversation why from your ear
sequence of audit I'd say this release
rate is amazing story where you say well
we have fights and there were no
question about it the there was Civil
War he said what what is the point in
that made 1986 period right I wrote to
Walter Mears within my executive editor
and I said Walter you know if you want
me on this on this topic I'll quit y'all
uh pretty upset about something else but
I'm not going to kick you this way you
don't know we really still want you to
do it but they were obviously torn and
it was in it would became this and I had
been basically by the time we get to the
summer of a sick Barger had decided to
leave to true wasn't private know if it
were to happen it happened when Barger
was it because I'd arranged his hire but
he was hired as maternity a relief
appointment because he was what you can
do at night book so I basically larger
anything was to come in do all your
rough work you're tired in a small
Bureau you work all these hours and you
may be different this national debt and
you have to work in legend walking a
night shifts all the rest of it so part
of humans of this unusual way which was
through this as maternity relief of
pointy and then and so he and I worked
during that time and then then they
decided there and put
or 9/10 repeatedly life so we worked on
the overnight desk for where I'm in
decided that was not a nasty way wanted
the city doing so he left me has its
ways great stuff as I listened to it I
just overwhelmed with the sense of how
how little goes on in this kind of
endeavor right now goes on not nearly
enough
I can get another this would you take us
back upstream or school district
inspector sirens a shame the October
Surprise and how you worked your way
into that story and hope some people
here we're not born to take us for the
import of that and how you discovered
what most basically what happened with
the October Surprise story which is
which is the occurrence private issue is
about whether or not the Republicans in
nineteen eighty when President remodel
Reagan was running against President
Jimmy Carter whether or not the
Republicans went behind hearted back and
made contact with Iranians and have them
delay the release of American hostages
hundred and there are fifty two of them
for health record in 44 days ultimately
and in turn of the anniversary of the
mutation was that was what the
presidential election on in 1980 it was
a very high-profile thing had been for
quite a while and card is failing to do
it from get the hostages free pretty
much doing this presidency and and
brought in Reagan he tries to the
choppers Ilya McDonald riders in a
negotiation scale and then the Americans
were quite ecstatic that we've been
humiliated by the Iranian and Carter
loss in a land line so but frankly at
that time I really did they get anything
of that and I was covering up in
Washington but I was just nothing
connected for me but then the arraign
contra scandal happens and what we
learned for the iran-contra scandal
which breaks in the fall of 1986 was
that despite all the denials that we've
been hearing from the Reagan people
until
rate himself there had been that the
there was this effort to sell and it has
the dad sold weapons to Uranus in 1985
and 86 and they've done so without
telling Congress at stake in the cash
and shows in Columbus some of the cash
and the profits are taken in general to
the Contras that gave new ran contra
scandal its name now the problem there
was that as we went deeper into the
investigation of that we became clear
that the weapons did not begin to move
in 85 like the official story was that
they've been going much further back and
we kept rates in the bag and we got to
1981 and it became clear that Reagan
immediately after becoming president had
approved weapons sales of uranium now
why wouldn't he do that and that becomes
why would he do that
and any and mostly done through the
Israelis who had were handling that
those deals at the time and at that
point is really they're trying to
rebuild their ties to Iran and they were
using the weapons sales as the way to do
it at the point that point ran war with
Iraq so there was a desperate need and I
ran for more weapons and they had
American weapons they needed something
they could use so as we went back
further in and began talking to people
it became clear that there was something
that had happened and this was grounded
new sleep and new thing had no interest
in pursuing any of these stories New
Zealand hospital to the iran-contra
story
they just didn't washington post
ownership connection describe the good
of the nation going to be abroad either
but yet there was a real feeling that
for the good of the country we just
don't want to have another one of these
constitutional crisis where a Republican
president perhaps destroyed because of
some scandal with president and so there
was that attitude this was this wasn't
good the country to do this so there was
hostility for anyone fine pursue it I
was one trying to pursue it and reached
the point there was this hostility that
when in 1987 when the congressional
iran-contra report was released I was
taken as I advised
she doesn't Thomason told you I've
talked to those people in New York but
you're not want you to read the report
Wow and so I hadn't already been with
them and I did that and you know I was
going to be writing about this we have
to have something and I'm we need to
rework and you said he said well if you
can find something that not even report
we then we do that I thought how can I
find out what thought oh no no so fab no
part of what the reservoir and of course
we have to but many things when I were
when Oliver North went on trial that was
in 1990 1990 now 89 or 90 in that
timeframe he I was told we were not
going to cover here the North trial user
did the reviews to cover he was that
great boy scout so that was of the
hearings in his criminal trial just Andy
and I yeah it was I couldn't understand
it today is it they were so hostile to
the story I did but everyone else's
target times covering it and they said
no I thought we talked the top people
that they do not want us cover this so
we did we were the one who made this
organization that did not cover the
trial with a sell cocaine to them and
I've been it but and I read complaint
said well I'm going to get blamed with
it because I'm the guy responsible and
it was going to cover in this trial and
even though they don't like not to cover
the trial both yeah so I find it so that
back then he was something called
federal News Service which is just
gotten started they did like transcripts
of process so I arranged to get an
transcripts of the daily transcript so I
do my regular work at ap or infer this
week and I come home at night and some
guy show up with a motorcycle with these
transcripts every day and it would it
turned out though was that the
transcript had the conversations between
the judge and their lawyers which the
people in the courtroom could hear in
other
Levin Invesco how do they work impatient
sorry
it does I love another stop it would
feel awesome and they appreciate it and
so if you begin to say that we're not
going to pursue this but so I like that
and then I got a call from Marty Smith
the front line in exhibits and we're
thinking about looking into this October
Surprise issue whether or not there
Victor ran contrary didn't in 1989
insisted they and didn't break into my
Carter's embassy at the hostages out and
I really didn't want to do it directly
I've been through a lot of that when I
was oh the tired is it and but I said I
really couldn't be I couldn't just whip
out on it so I came up here they must
have launched in and met with them and
they teamed me up with his very talented
producer Robert watt they had what they
called a hi-8 camera that was like one
of the early really portable cameras you
know they like to like tape and every
day but so we went off and we traveled
basically around the world of look into
Europe and into released and an
interview people would track people down
and came back to the story that we were
not entirely confident that we nailed it
but clearly there it was there were
there was interference that the regular
people had engaged and that some of the
details were still somewhat murky and
over the years I've been able to fill in
some of those pieces but it was a very
tough story that people have seen very
want to hear then either
and the suggestion was that wealthy
Republicans were touch with Carter's
Iran intermediary Cyrus ashaming
and what well if I was a shammy was
happened to be a business both are the
Kennedy was an Iranian who've been sort
of part of the revolution if you go
inside of the
is always a turnover in 1979 if you know
the most a businessman he was a fancier
and he happened to be a associate of
that in John Shaheen who was a former
OSS veteran like the forward route CIA
nor - and Shaheen best buddy and
business partner was when he tasted so
we in tasty was had been Nixon that were
predicted but he also was Reagan
campaign director in 1918 and later
became the CIA director so as the tasty
was like this to a cowboy while
ideologue who really wanted to take it
to the rough season and he was a very
much an aggressive cold warrior and he
believed the Jimmy Carter was was
destroying the country and needed to be
removed so so the connection between
Cyrus honcho me and Shaheen and Stacy
were important to understanding but she
came with all the recruited by the CIA
in 1980 79 and 82 work as for the Carter
Administration making contact with his
former ask friends and Iran to help get
the hostage hostages out and Cyrus
Hashem he brings in his brother John
Cena shoemakers and others that are
wheeler-dealer in in Iran and they're
both are officially working for the CIA
but they have this back to her
connection to the Reagan people through
team encasing the Carter thought they
were working with is part of items they
were working for him it appears that
they were working for the Republicans as
well and John she Hashem II Tsar's
actually died before the investigation
happened but in brother
describes in detail how they arranged a
secret meeting in Madrid I was in Casey
and some senior Iranian in the summer of
1980 just to help delay the release of
hostages so and if you believe that all
of that through the elections are rigged
well it's always hard to say what what
leads people the United States to vote
one way or another you know what a big
deal it was it's not a big deal no
question and end is more significant
thing within Katy trust and correcting
my president attempted vice presidential
candidate irrigation Bush felt that this
was the issue that determine the
elections to Carter and we got the hot
his back right before the election it
was actually George HW Bush give it the
name October Surprise you said Carter
might have an October Surprise to pull
which is too great to get the hostages
out and therefore pull out the election
so from the Republican point point of
view they thought Carter is trying to
manipulate the situation by getting the
hostages out wise before the election
and therefore benefiting so in effect
assuming all this is true and they're
still announcing the period but they
were trying to prevent that I have a
couple more questions of a lot of
questions in the audience
years later I think a journalist
resupport America's stolen narrative I
is amazing stories of great consequence
from that period and you in this most
recent book come on up to date and to
your point about how the past isn't past
and the future is shaped by these
stories you describe even Barack Obama
as trapped by false history by a false
understanding of history can you just
share with us so that pieces well the
problem is that I believe very very
strongly that narrative is how people
understand events and so a lot of what
the what the government propaganda stew
is they try to create narratives that
they felt in American people and this
very briefly went back to the period of
the nineteenth early 1980's the Reagan
people were focused intently on this
idea that the American people were out
of control because the array because you
had it
like Vietnam War and there were
demonstration there were demonstrations
right here on targets where massive
demonstrations violent demonstrations
and and then of course you had Pentagon
Papers which the New York Times
published once I mean I've done some
websites under the New York time or
through a website back then but the UH
but then you had Watergate being pursued
by the Washington Post
you had the New York Times hiring fibers
who did the family jewels CIA
Andals of the mid to late 70s one point
the American people didn't believe
anything they were hearing from the US
government so the trip was how do you
get the American go back on board in
favor of fighting more Wars and being
more aggressive overseas and the Reagan
people we now have other document or
louder document to date and what they
probably rephrase that was how you take
the Vietnam syndrome and the way they
started doing that was in the early
1980s efforts with Casey now the CIA
Reagan in the White House
they sent their best propaganda again in
Walter Raymond jr. from the CIA over to
the National Security Council staff and
he organized interagency task forces and
they they basically dissected us and how
we can be brought back into line to
support their foreign activities and
they and they was afraid that that
Raymond lying team is all the time he
said we must blue white hat on our
friend and glue black hat on our enemy
and that was the idea that you make make
it such an extreme thing that's so so in
this case the Contras were the moral
equals of the founding fathers because
the grades of reggae music on them which
that was I bought a bond rather
complicated but much about erotic
bothers but to begin
and they have more of an insult to them
but the and but then blues black dots on
the Sandinistas and offended users were
certainly their problems but they
weren't the totalitarian dungeon that
Reagan described in that so but that was
the game and if a reporter or human
rights activist or and some
congressional investigator were to say
gee you know it's really much more
somebody much greater than that you
can't be that black and white then that
person becomes the sandanista apologist
and that person gets attacked and
criticized and really ated and
marginalized the best they can and this
is a business scheme and a process
that's been used over and over and over
again I mean one can go back to of the
Iraq war when you know obviously the
black tablet Saddam Hussein and anything
they said about him no one good question
he's working with al-qaeda he's got
weapons of mass destruction in lying
about so forth um anyone is to hold that
that's really not supported by the
evidence where the fence was the Saddam
apologist and no one to do that so it
was a way of intimidating and quieting
people from being independent and
expressed in the sense so that process
was going on on on through this whole
period and I think so when you so so we
so I thought that could be your entry
point where the question was how you see
or have seen Barack Obama entrapped by
this false history is you described
so all these narratives get going and
they don't really stop and I'm not sure
how much President Obama understands
about this history could have been very
badly written our recent history is a
mess
I don't think people understand some of
these key points they remain
controversial even when they've been
proven on the continent drug days for
instance is remained too controversial
even though the CIA in 1998 came out
with an inspector general's report
admitting to it but at that point the
Nira Times in the Washington Post and
the LA Times did not want to revisit the
story they impacted because in many
cases they had
criticizing those was reporting it back
in the 1980s and then when the Concord
drug story was revived by Gary Webb in
1996 they trashed him so when the CIA
did - it was a certain uncomfortable
situation for the big press and they
mostly dealt with it by ignoring it so
some of these things are still
controversial but even though they've
been established by by by a historical
record so it's not clear to me how much
President Obama understands about this
recent history he was not someone who
did not come up in Washington he was
based in Illinois as a senator so he may
not know a lot of this history and
probably did we bother to try to master
it but much of these the same techniques
have been used to create these black hat
and villains continues to the present
everybody is that's how we treat
everybody now Saddam Hussein was good
cake we're seeing it with Assad we see
it with Putin we see it over and over
and over again whereas there's people
saying well yeah they're real problems
of those people but you can't say that
they're the attendance with the black
hat on it turned out that was much
easier to put black tabs on people the
White House because the White House's to
be associated about the Contras for
instance these guys aren't white happily
but it was easier to demonize the
Sandinistas than it was to make the the
Contras into angels in that process I
think they were in that that you think
that Americans are bonded ly the worst
of some of these foreign leaders and if
you create that dynamic that narrative
Americans of hard time getting around it
you will have done to destroy us false
history that puts it at a kind of a
remove as me listen you tell these
stories here this evening what a
privilege this is really a privilege and
important to hear what it sounds like is
an accumulation of inadequate or even
ornate or negligent or corrupted
press coverage it seems to amount in
total to a kind of profound failure
in urbanism decrease cumulatively false
history yes I mean I think that the
whole argument that the presence of
write the first draft history we're in
really bad for a strap-on and I'm not
sure the historians who are in any
position to correct it frankly okay what
we've seen within as a career ISM that
also affected our business and I use
this all like we go back to I of stone
and its views on some of these matters
there is this an intense amount
journalist if they have to keep their
jobs crazy idea they have families to
support that they don't want it wet
aside initiatic underpins our website in
the so I think and I think when you have
the consolidation of the press and you
have now Puran through newspapers that
adds to the conformity in the old days I
don't know more people than the old days
if they were if they were like virtue if
there were like three or four papers in
your city and you have a fight with your
editor if you wouldn't run a story and
say I quit you'd storm down the street
to the next newspaper and he hires you
and you're kinda story there
there are those extra newspapers anymore
there's one newspaper a city or lucky so
so what you end up with our journalists
much more afraid of of clashing with
their with their executives over or
storing and they tend to be more willing
to sort of go along with whatever the
conventional wisdom is whatever the
groupthink is and and this groupthink
problem has become a real danger to the
nation and to the world we certainly saw
that with Iraq it's always procedure
anything and looking back to so if there
was a real film group thing it's a
harder we know things more current but
but in the case of something like
there's any of those recurring and
dystopian geminated right now there's
such a conformity and official
Washington now about how you do things
how you view these issues and you're
online you're immediately marginalized
you're all names could be you know
computers
non apologist or Assad apologist or
enemies apologist or accrued apologist
there all be different definitely that's
how they label you and well-paid where
we're going to attack dogs who can be a
shift on the Google right and we've seen
that too way it even from the days in
the 80s we had like accuracy and media
which was a well-funded right-wing group
that went after journalists who tried to
tell the truth on on difficult issues
that's now the government
institutionalized in different ways as
well so so what you have is very hostile
environment for telling the truth and
journalists have increasingly chosen not
to whether I go along with the
conventional wisdoms or we be part of
the grouping an amazing thing about the
Iraq war and and when there was always
no accountability it's one thing to sort
of get everything wrong and yet it's an
active group bank where the washington
press corps a totally bought into these
false stories and then after it was
exposed it really wasn't much punishment
I feel I've seen journalists destroyed
over some minor mistake or something
even not a mistake that people say was a
mistake or something and you've seen
this is like a Merry Maids that CBS you
saw with Gary Webb it's San Jose Mercury
News yet
journalists were involved in one of the
biggest failures that we've seen in
modern history Saul walked away and are
still they're still wet the columns in
the Washington photos they're still they
still had their jobs at the New York
Times and does this sit on board it
turns out there is safety numbers that's
only what we said it turns out to be
correct I suspected but honestly I
didn't fully anticipate the gravity of
this conversation I thought I should
share if there questions please commend
astronomy here no yes um I read a book
pertaining to a zine contrary it was
called the prophet of war P ro fi TS and
it was written about the moose on I am
the son of the agents and
to save your life in Coolidge Corner of
a library and I actually have to check
the web right now to find out what his
name was because us together and he
talks about the extremely poor quality
weapons that the Israelis were selling
to the Iranian and they were able to get
away with it because nobody discussed
him sell weapons to the Iranians and the
other thing he talked about was I mean
it was a lot in the book but I think
it's worth reading was how Carter was
the only one who knew who did not know
what was going on the Republicans sort
of control the situation and it's not
harder than think he just was on the
loose and they did it specifically yes
to prevent in being elected already
cotton so many people in the other Arab
in minashi and Jana Perry been minashi
any baby was not issuing the Mossad he
was in Israeli military defense or he
was in the military intelligence and he
was he was as close to who he was very
much with Coonan at the time I mean I've
been at unit I said I spent time action
in jail and he was uh he was read one
reason he sort of fell out with the
Israelis was that he was part of this
effort told one more number of years of
Israeli to sell weapons to the Iranian
and he was a he ran afoul of US Customs
on a one of his one of the sales plane
to Koran and they rested in in Los
Angeles and brought in to New York to
stand trial as the Newsweek at the time
was nineteen ninety and I flew into
Manhattan looking for this guy that his
name had been in the iran-contra world
he was like this mysterious Israeli
agents that we kind of knew was out
there but I couldn't find it
and actually I got a call from a fellow
reporters Daiso
looking for this guy and I said yeah and
he well you may go find it now been
taken he's at MCI in in mentor Manhattan
so I arranged to go and interview him
and he was quite a surprised by that
interview because he was who didn't you
know beige prison jumpsuit but he was
very proud and you've been telling this
guy with a well trained intelligence
officer and he and he basically told me
you don't know iran-contra I thought I
can't you ever in culture but he said
you don't know any really what the
background story was and so he began
talking and then he went on trial and
was acquitted by a jury in New York
because they believed and they believed
accurately that he really was an Israeli
intelligence officer when after I
interviewed around back to my news big
office in Washington and we we checked
him out and at first the Israelis deny
they work for them on all the city was
imposter but then I was able to get
documents of showing that he had work
for them and had been considers a very
promising of intelligence officer and
then they confirm to getting did work
for them they try to minimize his role
but he clearly was a key figure in that
operation he was he was an Iraqi Jew
born in Iran both Farsi he emigrated to
Israel and his life 16 I can be saying
about that so the background but yeah
there's a lot of interesting things of
that sort that the footage is
practically public open any window of
this entry good serve
speaking of challenging narrates can I
press you a bit on the on the news weeks
desire to protect the Republic are you
talking about the Graham family can you
get specific I mean who was making those
two syllable
yeah or no your popular Katharine Graham
is a hero right and all the president's
men and so forth so I mean who was
making that kind of a decision for the
good of the Republic well basically the
senior executives in newspaper were
appointed by Katharine Graham
major Parker Winston who is
executive editor on various basically my
nemesis and when you're a correspondent
someone's the executive editor it's it's
not our fight but the oven valid Emily
but there was it was that there was an
occasion on I just got a new Newsweek
was in 1987 and you think would have
these dinners having dinners for like
newsmakers and and and people would come
down to New York from New York to be
part of these Darris often at Evan
Thomas house in Northwest PC and this
one the two guests of honor Brent
Scowcroft who at that time had just been
part of the initial investigation of
iran-contra focus was called as the
tower board and Brendan was one of three
people on it and the other guest of
honor was Dick Cheney who at that time
was he was a congressman and he was
about to become the senior Republican on
the iran-contra investigation on the
hill and at one point during this very
nice little dinner plated salmon and
asparagus on it was a waiter involved
and pull the glasses of wine it was a
score cross said so I probably shouldn't
say that he said but if I were advising
as a Poindexter would that have been the
national security adviser for Reagan and
if Apple Poindexter had told the
president about the diversion of the
money from the rent of weapons sales for
the Contras I'd advise him to say that
he hadn't and but so I you know
predominate work and I because I didn't
like this except general you're not
suggesting that that Admiral to commit
perjury and my wife I was at was the
Maynard partner and he the bloomin boy
said sometimes we have to do what's good
for the country
and it was like in like a cemented to
falling around the table and it was
quite clear that I was this is not that
I really think why today so I mean not
so but that was just that one
you know joke whatever it was mad a very
happy one thing but it was actually what
they actually fell and they crushed me
multiple times today in various life
it's a great question can I take the
liberty or just following up and ask you
about the Jason rezaian situation to
have a special insight on that at
present in Iran means Washington Post
guide through a secret history here okay
let's talk I've ever attended my life I
want to ask you about the the recent
cyber team or her story about Osama bin
Laden and did you read the New York
Times Magazine story about this it's it
strikes me the similar to the pattern
you described where when someone goes
off the script then there's a sort of
rallying people ridiculing but it's so
many of the people are serious national
security reporters who are raising
questions when stories that you have to
wonder is it is it that or is it that
his story is weird and you know well I
have no real direct knowledge on that I
do notify and I have great respect for
his work I think he's one of the great
investigative journalists in American
history can be a little century at times
but all that can be whatever you
remember sighs history means you go back
through it he would be he does not
against it email i masochist exposure
back in
late 1960s but he also did the family
jewels of CIA stories for the New York
Times more recently he was involved in
breaking the Abu Ghraib scandal and in
Iraq
all these things were up with were
denied or spun differently by the
government as he was trying to break
them
these weren't easy stories so I think
you have to put that into into the
picture now I would just say that my
guess is and I we don't have direct
knowledge but that probably there's some
mix of truth and maybe they must mark a
bit on some of this I think the story
was very neatly told by the government
about the execution or the killing of
Osama bin Laden but I think that was
probably a little too neat and he would
sigh provided was some of the other side
of it but whether all his story is
correct
he's not is he working with the source
or - that he has other people where they
are good pretty good journalists have
their had their sources and they see it
more as the government has sort of
presented it you know I don't know but I
do think that probably I might get to be
as a mix of those two things as a
follow-up so perhaps you think them in
this Internet era it gets a little
harder to silence dissenting voices and
descend by journals who are reporting in
community groups what is the question of
I think the there is the ability to get
information out of the problem becomes
how how many people you can get it to
you theoretically much everybody but
there are doctrine eyes you started
there weren't that many websites but
they want to run on the internet either
so now there are civilian website and
it's hard to for people to sort of know
what they want to read and what's good
and for you also on the internet a lot
of does it's terrible we have things
that are made up but crazy conspiracy
theories you have folded by documents
they pictures you have all kinds of
things I want to be extremely careful
I've been a piece of the day about the
- to not just accept everything you sort
of find that you're lying - trying to
get photographed save in the case of the
mh17 situation or that things like that
you can be mislead the agency people
I've known or some of the I want to
interviewed general land tails would
like the father of Uzziah psyops
that he backs from the days of
Philippines insurrection in Vietnam and
and lands billow he said he said the key
thing is not to get your stories in the
controlled press key things to get your
stories into the press that people think
think there is an independent and
trustworthy because they'll be open to
that so there's always a game of how you
sort of sneak your stories to the public
and the internet would be like the
devil's playground for some of these
guys because it's so easy to kind of get
things out and look very real but I do
think there's a need to be very very
high standards of trying to evaluate
what you're looking at so I think in a
way you can get information out perhaps
more easily but you also have to be
careful that's always a problem thank
you I agree I'm more curious to your
take on the Gary Webb series first of
all do you think it's basic was
basically credible secondly if you were
together would you have to do something
differently and thirdly if the
disparaging of that series have any
impact on you and the credibility of
neurons
well I knew very well I got to know one
reasonably well he actually called me
before he wrote his series and he came
to describe what he was working on and
it was something different what we had
done our stories were faithful focused
on what was happening in Central America
the concerts were sending the cocaine
into the United States are helping to
get it here on history with what
happened to it when they got here this
is the correct location of adenylate
right that also have employment that
some of the tractors some of the cocaine
had gone into LA and turn into crack and
then help feed into the crack epidemic
through so devastating for the day
african-american community so and I
didn't carry it that are you ready
respond you because that's getting
crucial on this one go yeah they're
solid there - thought they were and they
were I guess at that point so we ran in
series now the series in three-part
series you did in August of 1996 you
know you can argue that you maybe should
have put into more background he says he
did and that is that took it out because
there was a lot of history already
they've been I'm just
are reporting back in 85 86 but it was
the Carey investigations there to carry
that an investigation which advances
quite a bit by 89 Richards's with those
who don't know this LA Times and others
came back in and said this place would
overstate it so not great
all right they look so today after web
story came out and better the press the
major press saying this is a good chance
to not revisit a very serious story that
had been sort of dismissed and not
treated if there isn't the deserve at
the time instead be was easier to
destroy Gary Webb so the New York Times
The Washington Post the Los Angeles
Times just to did a tag-team wrestling
match and just kick the crap out of
Harry way and detention agree they made
issues out of things that we want that
important like the the graphic that was
used it shows
the CIA seolin's them I was smoking
crack and with like a graphic but they
became a big issue and so web was
ridiculed and laughed at and and sold
with the black community because the
black community was demanding a serious
investigation so so that's what happened
with that was that it wasn't editors got
cold feet they were sending our green it
was their part of the night reader chain
at that point to further clarify the
gravity Jerry we're committed suicide
December 2004 right so the basically web
was destroyed and ended editors
humiliated him and forth into design now
what he did do and I was in touch with
him during this dirty and and the
company forced the government to start
really investigating and it was there
was a it was a report by the Justice
Department's inspector general there
were two reports by the CIA perspective
general and the end especially the CIA
inspector general than in Frederick it
was it was a really got a stand-up guy
and he went back and really went through
this and he showed but I was talking
about earlier that the Contra drug
problem begins in 1988 runs all the way
through the decade now so in that was
done in 1998 so whether there have been
sort of destroyed is pretty been
destroyed
he's been ridiculed and laughed at and
and so I went to see how he comes out
with it the New York Times did do a
piece have a you know semi may occult
bought sort of piece but not kind of not
very much attention was paid to it the
Washington Post just sort of kissed off
the report and the only time they didn't
want to deal with it at all because they
were being shown that of it not only
they missed that they missed this story
happen in the 1980s they then destroyed
a reporter who tried to bring it back in
the 1990s but it said that sort of thing
we really screwed up we be ashamed of
ourselves they just hired ten didn't
happen so so web never was his career
he's never put back on track he remained
as pariah who did
work anywhere and eventually merit broke
out he couldn't pay his child support he
couldn't get a grading campaign job and
he was being kicked out of some house it
you things been moved into he was not
move back in with his mother that could
have been a place he could go and they
she chosen n.flying all this despite his
basic plans were essentially been
dendera truth I mean they're you know
what they're very differently but it was
true his initial report the initial
reaction is reporting has any
repercussion on your own work did you
will start to question your work well
our work had been questioned already and
so by the way was Senator Kerry's
investigation which was a very good
investigation very gusty investigation
where is he in the Senate he put out a
report in 1989 that was again generally
laughed at is missed by the maker this
organization think this is a story they
did not want to deal with it didn't
matter how much evidence you have is it
even it didn't matter how well
documented it was this was one of these
things with the major news media decided
this was I guess not good for the
country and that they weren't going to
go with it so so we ended up with it
this is part of the problem if you reach
the point when even serious
investigations well documented well
reported are ignored or treated as if
they're fiction or something the country
a democracy can't work that by the
public the whole point of all this is
that the powerless that people have to
be empowered with the information and
that's what they've done this was back
in when when Walter Raymond and bill
kaysing were doing things after that in
the 1980 they knew they had to take that
power away from the American people they
had to get controls of the narrative
they had to sort of spell to you with
black half white hat and simplistic
storylines so the American people would
fall in line and as the American people
were continued to be informed as they
were being informed in the 1970s it
would be very hard to get the American
people to go on for the next event
you know the American people were
understood how this game was being
played it might have looked at the Iraq
war very differently from the beginning
so king of all media I give you a cable
channel and ask you just to talk all day
for about three years over time at
couple more your ass conservative
relativism mr. Royalton reasonable in
any way limit our demand for workers
company and then after as I follow a
close on the issue of on your normal
contrast Sarah spoke it happened to me
to be more some way there was she in
longer working with the same
institutions available a Penn State
Department here and sharing I found the
deceased be a philosopher just on the
long term plan described where he formed
that and I was important to ethnicity
who can segue relate those
Argentinosaurus oil the longer it stays
hustle people
well I'm not sure I can obviously my
knowledge other things are responding
you're a big focus on rather than gently
but then you a lot of other stories
until things happen that you just don't
say on top of and I have to apologize
for not being on topic if you're talking
about there was obviously a ratio of
complexity and everyone doing in some of
the warm drug aspects of that but I
really haven't been covering it way the
lab needs and get to be the the
responder over time but what about here
um text and congratulations Bob
appreciate your work um of course I'm
always mindful of well often by its
Don's comment I'll never believe
anything until it has been officially
denied I want to ask in the family
jewels things you alluded to it was talk
about the relationship between CIA and
media media assets individuals Institute
and media institutions out blowback has
a different meaning in that context you
plant the story you surface it in
another country gets blown back to the
US by AP assets and then it appears in
US media just as one example so could
you talk about the relationship between
historically and do you think it's
something to be concerned about today
between institutions like the CIA and
media and specific people in the media
and to juice up the question years ago I
remember when Jim Thompson was the
curator of the Nieman Foundation he was
giving a talk to some graduate students
about career opportunities and I think
maybe just because he wanted to show
that he didn't care what anybody thought
he said I encourage you to consider a
career in the CIA and then years later I
saw the obituary in The New York Times
for his brother who had actually been in
the CIA so what do you think of the
jacket how able to get fairly jeweled
the reports of skeletons from the table
proprietary developing 15,000 seventies
including putting efforts to control the
press or have people in the media acting
in that bit and I don't know I can't say
much about it I've never I've never
actually encountered direct evidence
that any colleague or someone I know was
working on the payroll the Central
Intelligence Agency I think much of many
of these things they become more
diffused over years you'd only have to
work with the CIA that so the way it was
framed before now what you have and
we've seen is even currently is that of
other US government entities like the
National Endowment for democracy with
the set up in 1983 in a way is to take
over some of those amazing CIA that
group is still in this it's good hundred
million dollars a year and it supports
journalists and other people that sort
activists need supposedly over there
I haven't even worked it but who
supposedly are promoting democracy now
so you have people who are out there who
are have their interests being turned in
certain way on the money we have USAID
for instance now of providing money to
some journalistic organizations overseas
and even to some degree in United States
where they say that in my blood crushin
I government that United States now
these favors might be targeted for
corruption investigations and since all
government that corruption you're going
to find some there you go so anyway I
think you do you do see similar patterns
and Plus in the bigger way that I think
the national security apparatus control
the reporters is by giving you ten bits
of information now I'll be very brief on
this but basically people don't
understand it if you cover national
security is probably the most controlled
beat you could possibly be on because
sourcing is so hard it's hard to find
commute my son who's when you link to
that birth and may very well be
prosecuting days so you're dealing
with with very few people in control but
then the national security apparatus
their PR offices often saying sourcing
they'll pretend like their own name so
it sounds more believable they will then
give information to favorite journalists
and if they wanted new sleep if one of
these operatives were to give a sort of
time that may have been making more
propaganda than true and time runs it
the AP executives come back to me and
yell it why don't you have that but you
know and the reason you may not have it
they don't like you because they may
think you've caused us too much grief
over the years we're not going to give
you that story and we'll give it to
somebody else and make you look bad so
that's in my experience that more the
way it's worked actually remarkable to
ours as well as well over now and I
apologize for that and I'm sorry I just
can't get to everything here there's
been more in this tonight that I
expected and it it's unsettling at a
deep level but right alongside that is a
respect and and pride I feel in your
work I'll bury and honor in sharing this
dies with you this evening
I built this is this has been a lot of
time we should give us a little
benediction if you would hit and wait
and implications of disappointment that
you've heard or Emory this implicates
many people in your business and mine is
powdered rebound way you have two words
to say to
now I just I just spent my life in the
business of trying to verify information
and he is the perfect example of what we
all believe journalism was all about two
things I don't want to put a down note
on it but I'm going to do it not I think
Robert listen I'm going to keep doing
what he's doing I wish I wish he his
work was carried on the front page of
the New York Times but my concern is
that even the best journalists today
have difficulty doing the kind of work
he's doing we read the New York Times
every day but every reporter who's
working for the New York Times even
investigators have to deal with the web
site
basement room which means every time
I've been effective stop reporting and
that they destroy us on the web you
can't run an investigative piece
breaking off every 45 minutes to update
a ladies room in the basement of the
Capitol and the best reporting is
investigative authority I've never liked
the term investigative reporting for
them believe all reporting is
investigative reporting it's almost
impossible for the daily journalists to
do that now and our only hope is the
kind of work you're showing the impact
at work and and our hope of the
committee was that we would elevate your
work among people like this and they
would go out and talk to people so more
people would know what you're doing
we've got to find the Niemen Brogan has
to find a way to make this kind of
journalism standard and better known
outside this room and Tom you did a
great job bringing it here one question
you had dinner what happened with
Snowden a nanny is either source of just
like the dryer and in fact that Obama
used the 1917 law against encourage and
I think even called a terrorist site so
in kampala territory
don't let me announce in the concert
during the debate what is going to
happen to the source given what I
consider a very hard attack today to
drawing up this Marla there it's harder
and harder to get people to talk back in
the day it was no way it was never easy
but you can have sort of friendly
conversations with intelligence people
and like I said earlier so I would come
up back from a Central America or Miami
where I were talking to the Contras and
I could then sit down with some agency
people they would and they would bounce
things off them and they would and they
would confirm things for me but it was
all done it was all accepted with the
way you've worked it would help to help
them to it help the government
understand things better and help the
journalist understanding better that it
was a public understand things better
this current climate is is poisonous and
I've had sources people that for
instance on the issue of the Malaysian
Airlines flight there are there are CIA
analysts that have very different views
in terms of analyzing it that have been
expressed by the government were
officially and they don't want to talk
because they they say if they if they
ever talk to me directly they've been
talking me through an intermediary but
it's not gonna be directly they could be
prosecuted and the no one wants to get
prosecuted so what we're seeing is even
a worse situation
under President Obama than I've ever
seen before it has been effective of all
the significance ocean dude Leon
insertion
[Applause]